Woah, the Irodorimidori anime is nearly upon us! I am in high levels of anticipation. I do however have some queries. One thing I am unsure of is if there will be a sub. On the youtube livestream I am about to begin, I doubt there will be, but I hope that in the future it does get dubbed. I did some research, but only found news articles (in English) announcing the anime, but no note of if it would be subbed. Apparently it will also be on amazon video, but I looked on amazon and couldn't find it. At the very least it could be subbed and distributed on some unofficial sites. In my research I found a wikipedia page for 2022 anime, and Irodorimidori was at the top of the list, which gives some reassurance. Anyway, 5 mins to go. As I don't think there'll be a sub for the stream, I'll just try to review the video, and hopefully any music. 



Oh ok it's finished already. It was only 3 minutes, but I guess it'll be quicker to review that way. The episode is called "Get members", so is basically an intro. We open at the school, with Serina and Aliciana sitting at a table. Also as I assumed there weren't English subtitles, so I'll have to decypher the goings-on. It was however an interesting moment though, as I discovered that I subconsciously read and watch. I know that would be obvious, as otherwise I would struggle to understand everything, but it is something that you aren't really aware of as it is happening, as you are engrossed in the media. When the English translations didn't appear at the bottom, I went through a few seconds of bewilderment, before I refocussed, and remembered I had predicted this. Anyway, they are discussing a leaflet, which with my prior knowledge I know is about the Music festival thing, which is why the band formed in the first place. Serina seems pleased about this, which is because it will somehow improve her grades or something. At this point I will note that the art does look nice.



Now is the recruitment bit, which introduces all the members. I'm not sure who recruited them, but I'm sure it was explained. I think originally it was Serina who recruited everyone, but they might have changed it, as some events seem to be a bit different. Naru walks in first, and as she is the cousin of Serina, that is how she was recruited I guess. She has also got her guitar, which is what she plays. Naru seems like a fun character, who acts aloof. There is also an aspect of her which from my experience of mostly just listening to the music wasn't previously apparent to me, but is now so quite. This aspect makes me conspicuous of the profile picture of my Irodorimidori-devoted youtube channel constisting of organised playlists, but I think, at least for now, I'll keep it, as isolated it seems mostly innocent. Also Aliciana seems to be the most leader-like, as she is more mature and dominating than the others. This is helped by her height being the highest, but it is mostly her personality which defined her presence.

Then Nazuna is introduced. She is presented as the kind of person who is obsessed with cute things, which is demonstrated by her reaction to the room. Her appearance also reflects this, with her pink her and round glasses. Her voice is also cutesy. As a whole, her character has grown on me, as well as her music. I think I was too harsh in my first review of Irodorimidori, so as of now I officially don't hate Nazuna.

Last up is Nagi. Her personality seems more dark and gloomy (or realistic rather than optimistic), which is complemented with her monotone voice and grey hair. However, contrasting with this she is short, which leads others to see her as cute (Serina exclaimed a "kawaii" at the sight of her). Most of the characters appear to be cliché, but personally I don't mind it. The 5 girls are now a band (as Nachi and Shirona haven't joined yet)! However they aren't very determined, as after picking up instruments they lose focus and get distracted by other things, and Aliciana does an r/facepalm moment.

And then the credits came, which took me by surprise. It said We are us at the bottom, and the music was the same song, so I anticipated the song, but it was only a bit of instrumental. Then the end frame said Chunithm New, which I guess is advertising some kind of new arcade thing, which was how Irodorimidori started, I do hope the whole anime isn't just a ploy to advertise the new machines though.



So in conclusion I am a bit disappointed. The main negative would be the length. 3 minutes isn't a very substantial length, especially after what it was lead on to be. It said it would be a short run anime, but I guess it'll be a short short run anime. It is best summed up by a random comment I saw on the livestream at the end "too short". I also hoped that it would give a deeper story to the beginning of the irodorimidori universe, but instead rushed through it in 3 minutes. Despite this, it was an enjoyable watch for what it was. The art was nice, and it was fun to see the band in action (although not in the action of them playing, the action of them doing stuff). Hopefully someone does a sub (and if one materialises I will do an edit extension), but if not I think I'll still watch each episode, as I do like the universe (especially the music).

(end of written from 4th Jan 2022)





(20th Jan 2022)

Hurrah, the subs are here! Now I can actually comment on what they are saying. Not that I did too badly on understanding, as I got the main gist, but just mainly missed out on a couple of details. Also, if you are reading this in the order it is arranged (i.e. you haven't read my episode 2 review yet), there is quite a change of tone in my opinion of the show. Just after episode 1, I was quite sceptical, but after ep 2 (and now 3), it grew on me. So the cannon opinion is that I like the series, even if it is a bit short. Also I like Nazuna now.



So originally I was a bit confused, as I thought Serina was the organiser of the band, and without subs Aliciana seemed like the ringleader. However, Serina was the one to make the band, as there was a rumour that it would improve your grades, which she apparently needs. This scene sets the main story of the series, and also shows you about the characters we have at the moment. Serina is shown to be a bit desperate at the moment, as she is struggling with grades, so she recruits Aliciana, who proves herself to be a great and compassionate friend, who helps those in need. Aliciana is probably my favourite character. Also she has the nickname "Arin" apparently, so I might switch between the 2 names sometimes. Also Nazuna is mentioned, so the 3 so far are probably the most senior of the band.

We then go to the music room, to introduce everyone. Naru walks in, who I deduced to be aloof from her tone of voice and body language, which her dialogue confirms is true. Then Nazuna arrives, being the cute and clumsy one, which she exhibits by falling over and sweetly replying a thanks when Aliciana catches her. Also I didn't think about this before, but there exists the trope of a love interest falling into a character's arms. So what if, AlicianaxNazuna. I now ship Alizuna. Anyway, Nagi is last up, who as I stated, is more serious. Also Naru and Nagi seem to be aware of each other, but don't seem to properly know each other. I guess they're in the same year group. Wait, similar ages? What if Nagu? I don't ship it as much as Alizuna, but it could still work. Also that one would be the kind of relationship you would just have in your head-canon and leave it at that, rather than other characters who are more suited to being imagined in those situations.

Nagi apparently is a "music genius", meaning she is one of the more experienced of the band, despite her other inexperiences. This is also reflected in her seriousness, as other members would be there more for the grades, or fun or friendship, whereas she is more invested in playing music. I guess then they could do a classic story arc where she learns that the true lesson she learnt was friendship, or something like that. This would make sense as she is quite shy at the moment, as after the compliment was given she hastily hid behind Nazuna. Nazuna was the one who invited Nagi, so they have a relationship, with Nazuna being an older support/authority figure for her. Nagi even calls her senpai, which further establishes their dynamic. Although, in future episodes, it seems to imply Nagi has a crush on Nazuna (not going to ship this one because of the obvious difference between them). On the other side of the relationship I guess Nazuna sees Nagi as like a younger sister, or someone she is protecting/looking after.

Then, just as they are about to have their first practise, Serina and Naru get distracted, which establishes the band dynamic, and what kind of show this is (a light-hearted comedy, so not too serious). Lastly, while Serina and Naru are snacking, and Nagi doubts the capability of the band to Nazuna, Aliciana contemplates the rocky road ahead. As the credits roll, I have something to apologise for. Originally, I unfortunately incorrectly attributed this song as We are us (which is SSL's first song), when it is actually We are One, Irodorimidori's second song. I don't know how I got that wrong, as the words were literally spelled out on the screen, but I guess SSL was just on my mind. When I first heard We are one I did think it would make a good ending song to an anime. Of course hindsight me knows that each episode has a different ed, which I do like, but that was just an observation I made for that song.

We've reached the end of the second review of the first episode of the Irodorimidori anime. For any other series I would say something about revisiting the episode, but due to the length it isn't too much of a endeavour to watch. I've probably watched this first episode about 5 times, not including the pausing and rewinding needed for reviewing. This results in pros and cons for both arguments for the length. Personally, I am very happy with the series at this point, and can't wait to watch onwards. Also having subs did improve my enjoyment, so hopefully they are done consistently. Though I do want to say thank you to whoever is doing the subs. Thank you!

