"Here is the review for the second episode of the Irodorimidori anime" are some words I never thought I'd say. I know it's only been a few months since I discovered them, but still. Even though it hasn't been what I thought it would be, I have been enjoying them. Unfortunately I couldn't find a sub though. I even found Indonesian subs, but no English. I'll just have to exercise my inference skills, which are still proving better than I thought, as again, I wasn't at all that clueless while watching. This episode is called "Get the word!", which seems like a mistranslation, but I ran it through a few translators to the same result.





When I first saw the thumbnail (Serina and Naru with an evil look), I knew I would enjoy my time, which I did. We open to an instrumental of "Change Our Mirai", which I hoped would be them singing, but it was Aliciana sharing a demo with the band. I was disappointed at first, and thought they were dragging it out a bit [as in the pacing of the overall series, not this scene specifically], but then I remembered a complaint I had of the first episode, which was that it didn't go deep enough into the creation of the band. In this way I appreciate it, as we see what could be seen as the real creation of the band, which is them finding they enjoy playing together. If that is true then perhaps weren't given a proper team-up scene, as they were all kind of thrust together. That would then mean that we learn about the girls as they learn about each other, which is quite a cool concept.

Aliciana beams in the adoration and congratulation of the band until Nazuna walks in, and there's an awkward moment. I can't say for sure what the main conflict is, but it must be something to do with the first song. Title scene. Then we continue the discussion. Again, I'm not sure what they are on about, but it ends up with them writing something, which could be assumed to be lyrics (or ideas). That would mean that this episode is about constructing their first song. With the instrumental already done, they talk about what the song is about. They mention "mirai", which I think is the theme of the festival. Any other person would have to search up what that means, but I know that it means "future", because I previously translated it out of curiosity for the meaning of their first song. They then discuss their own ideas of the future. Serina and Naru picture fire and destruction, so I guess sadism runs in their genes. A nice touch is that Nazuna pops up as the person to question them, which I thought was a good touch as she's the cutesy one. Nagi then pictures the future with a married couple, but with the ominous music it is apparent something tragic happened. Aliciana interjects with her future idea, as a music star on the stage. This scene is quite fun and enjoyable, and I quite like it when an idea is brought up, and all the characters are given a chance to give their interpretation. It also shows us more about their personalities.



They then start writing. An hour and 33 minutes later, they are done. Serina and Naru are relieved, but Aliciana is skeptical. I'm not sure what about, but when Nazuna walks out oblivious to the issue, the others look worried. Then as the short credits roll we get a clip of brilliant better, a solo song by Aliciana. I think it's cool that they are using different songs for the end of the episodes, as it's nice to here the songs again, and just hear them being reused. In an ordinary show I might like the repetition of the same song, and get hyped up for when that moment arises, but for this case where the credits are 5 seconds, it fits well. Also, it could also fit in with the story. The design of the credits make it look like the song is playing on a music player app, and last episode's song was Change our Mirai, and today's was brilliant better. This could be Aliciana's music playing through the app. As she introduced the instrumental for Change our Mirai this episode, we could theorise that she was working on other stuff as well, like the instrumental for brilliant better. Who is listening to it though? It's probably either her, and she's having a check of her own music, or she is showing her band, but any crazier theories could also be valid, like the end credits app scene is set in the future, and it is fans listening to Irodorimidori's early music, before they were famous. This would also fit nicely with Aliciana's dream for the future. The credits music playing was just something I noticed, we'll see what the song is.





As for the new episode, I quite liked it. I did go in with lower expectations this time (mostly to do with a 3 min runtime), and this time they were met. I know I made some over-analysed observations of the episode, which is probably a consequence of my extended description of a short video, but my enjoyment can pretty much be simplified to just this: it is a fun watch. I just like all the characters, they're great. After being invested in the universe, listening to all the music, and reviewing the content I have consumed, it is nice to see the characters in action. Even though I've learnt quite a bit around them, especially their music, it is interesting and pleasing to see how they actually act. It also makes me love the universe even more, as all the characters are entertaining, enjoyable and excellent.

(finished 11th Jan 2022)







(14th Feb 2022)

Time to re-review again, with more context this time. I am quite a bit later, over a month in fact, but I have been doing other reviews, and other stuff in general, so haven't gotten around to it until now. As it is half-term I have decided to set a plan of finishing off some reviews, and doing some ones I didn't have time for (mostly revision), and also a project which I have planned, which would be pretty cool. It might turn out disappointing though so tbd. Anyway, onwards to the review:





As I said before, we start with Aliciana demonstrating her instrumental to most of the group, which they react pleased to. However, the main next part that needs to be done is the lyrics, at which point Nazuna stumbles in like it was her cue. It seems the responsibility of song-writing has fallen onto her, apparently as it is viewed as her forte (as she likes to read). This task is being thrust onto her, so she deflects it a bit by saying they should do it together, which is agreed by everyone. We get some quality dialogue between them, with Nagi being in awe, and Naru being Naru. Nazuna then presents the idea to write down words thought of by everyone. Nagi then has the idea to have the words be related to the theme of the festival- the future- which further materialises their first song, change our mirai. This also leads us onto the fun bit where we see everyone's ideas of the future. 



Serina and Naru's 'evil' scene turns out to be them thinking about how this band project will lead to them getting extra credit, which Nazuna clarifies it only really benefits those 2. All the mood fire shows how the band is created with an ulterior motive to Serina (which in fairness is made explicit to everyone), but presumably she ends up enjoying the band, as well as Naru. 

We then are shown Nagi's idea of the future, which goes much further than the previous two's idea, as Nagi imagines marriage and financial security. This fits with her serious character, but also fits in a deeper way, as Nagi has been show to like things organised or planned out (in the next ep most notably), so it makes sense that she has thought quite far into the future. Then we see Arin's dream, which is becoming a famous musician. This also shows that at the start Serina may have slightly manipulated Aliciana into doing the band, if her friend knows of Arin's ideal future. After that, they start writing down ideas. It starts with Serina hoping for success in school, which is dismissed by Naru and even Aliciana. I just found it funny that Arin, who is arguably the most mature of the group, publicly proclaims she thinks that Serina's ambitious grade goals aren't realistic.

We get some time passage, until they have finished. Despite Serina and Naru's exhaustion, Arin isn't too satisfied, but she acknowledges that it is probably enough, but it is just unorganised. However, according to Nazuna, that will be fine, and she exits the room to start her work. The rest aren't as optimistic. However, with the retrospect of episode 4, we find out she managed very well.





We have reached the end of the 2nd episode. It is quite interesting comparing my first conclusion to my thoughts now. After that first episode, I wanted to be optimistic, so after my ep 2 viewing I knew what to expect, and enjoyed that. Now, I have the details of what actually happened in the episode, and I know what happens in the coming episodes. This has lead to me digging deeper into the episodes, especially the characters and relationships, and enjoying what I find. 

I do however hope that this reading order hasn't confused readers too much. In the order it is arranged this takes place before episode 3 and 4, but this is written after I wrote those. Today was also when I made the anime reviews its own story. I do worry if I can continue this though, as the last 2 episodes haven't been subbed. This may be in part to the youtube channel only keeping the first and most recent episode (I addressed this in my ep 4 review). It would be a bit tragic for my anime reviews to end on the day I defined them distinctively, and made the cover, but it was fun, so there are no regrets. I can always still review the episodes without subs anyway.

I realise I didn't really conclude the episode well, and went on a bit of a tangent. This is quite a good episode, as it progresses well with the story of the first song. I'd say the character it fleshes out the most is Nazuna, as it adds to her character, showing her personality to be generous and sensitive to others, and her hobby to be reading (as well as her obvious hobby, music). However, it also does further define each character, with the scene showing everyone's ideal futures. With this being the second episode, it sets up these characters for first-time viewers, so further episodes can further further their personalities even further.

