Third times the charm, but since the first 2 were already good to start off with, of course this would follow the pattern. A new episode isn't the only cause to celebrate though, as the subs have been made! It wasn't even on an obscure website, it is quite well known. I won't mention any more specifics, as that seems like the kind of thing to get banned for, which would be devastating. I will however go back and add to my previous review with my newfound knowledge. It might mess up the chronology a bit, but I'm sure it's fine. I was debating on whether it's time I move these reviews to their own specific story, but I'll think about that later. For now, I'll review this episode. I'll have to do without subs as well, as I want to get the review out now, on official release date, so I'll edit it in at the bottom when it's [unofficially] english-subbed released. I did just discover that there is a feature to translate the other language's subtitles on a youtube video, but it's kind of bad, so I won't rely on it (future edit- yeah it is terrible).





Firstly, I will talk about my first exposure to the episode, which was, like the other weeks, the thumbnail. I say I was exposed to the thumbnail, but the thumbnail was quite exposing in the first place. Normally, if I saw an image like that, with another character, I would be quite pleased. However, the pictured member is Naru, which due to her qualitative circumstance and immature appearance, made me uncomforted. It did make me wonder about the episode's topic though.





We open to Nagi, as this is a very Nagi-centred episode. She is playing piano and pondering about the band. I think she might be thinking about how so far the band has mostly been messing about, and as she is quite a serious person, she is worried. Something of note is that this is quite a dialogue-heavy episode, so there won't be that much I can say. Nagi goes around and calls the rest of the band, presumably to talk about it's future. Actually, on second thought, I will wait until the sub, as I won't be able to say much. See you then!



Ok I'm back. I was right about what I guessed before, which is that she isn't sure how successful the band will be, as they don't practice and just mess around. She also questions the messing about because the original point of the band was to get extra credit, but that won't happen if they aren't serious. These sentiments could be seen in the first episodes, where she asks Nazuna what the point of the band was. She then calls up the other members to discuss this with them.

First she calls Naru, who is in the bath, because of course they decided to do that. Naru is quite relaxed about it, saying they are going at a slow and steady pace. Nagi says about thinking about the direction of the band, which Naru agrees with, but when Nagi started mentioning schedules, Naru accuses Nagi of being to serious. She does say that if they don't rehearse together, the members can practice separately, but something tells me Naru probably won't. Nagi says that she called Aliciana earlier, who was complaining about the other members not putting in the work. So far it seems Aliciana, Nagi and Nazuna are the most hard-working, whereas Serina and Naru put off the work more. This is ironic as those 2 are the ones who are stated actually need the extra credit, but they aren't trying hard enough. Maybe if they actually tried more, they wouldn't need the extra credit....(although then we wouldn't have Irodorimidori, so it worked out in the end). Naru does admit they should start putting some plans together though, so she's a bit better than Serina.

Speaking of Serina, she walks in on Naru at this moment, intending to join Naru in the bath (kind of goes against the point of the bath, but OK. I don't think there would be enough room anyway.) Serina demands to talk on the phone, but after a bit of fighting, the phone falls in the water. That is the last we see of those 2 this episode, so hopefully they didn't get electrocuted.



Nazuna is the last person to call, but she is fast asleep. She should probably put her phone on silent overnight, so it doesn't disturb her. Also she sleeps with her phone beside her pillow, which is not supposed to be good for you. Safety and privacy concerns aside, Nazuna, being still half asleep, replies to the call with a soft greeting, flustering Nagi. I think it is safe to say Nagi has a crush of Nazuna, as this conversation is definitive evidence (although a bit subjective). It does say thump on the screen though, so it is heavily implied. Nagi is surprised at Nazuna's early night, so bids goodnight, to let her heart-throb rest. Honestly having an early night must be nice. I don't have time for that unfortunately, partly because I write things like this. I do however enjoy my weekend lay-ins.



After the calls, Nagi has a little reminisce/overview. Referencing the episode name (Getting motivated), she realises motivation isn't really a problem, it must just be a lack of effort. The next day, she reveals an effort to try to increase effort. She made a website for the band, which everyone (me included) seems excited to see. However, upon viewing, it isn't the highest quality website. Despite this, the aim was to get more active participation to the band, so if it serves it's use, it's not so bad.

The credits song this time is the song by Nagi with the really long name. This makes sense with the main character of this episode, and maybe a canon reason could be this is a song Nagi was working on, maybe to give her more experience to contribute to the band.





I liked this episode. It had quite a distinct tone to it, as it is a bit sullen, as Nagi is unsure of the future. This is a message which is prevalent to many, as thinking about the future can be quite scary or daunting. This has been especially relevant to me this week, as I have been forced to think about what specifically I will do in the future (dropping an a-level to do AS, which will narrow my choices). This won't be the last time I have to think about that either. Maybe I'm just indecisive, idk. But worry for the future does seem to be quite prevalent in media, which I guess is a part of us finding our way in the world. Nagi is anxious about the band, as it is quite unpredictable, and goes against her preferred way of doing things, which is more organised and scheduled. However, the episode ends positively. She helps the others to be more motivated, to move forwards, and she is helped to be less stressed, as she is in a welcoming environment, and even if their lack of work may be annoying, all of the members care about each other.



This is also quite a rare subject of series, as this episode wasn't really about Irodorimidori making songs or playing together, but was about motivation, and the attitudes towards playing. If you don't have motivation towards doing something, you won't want to do it, which is a message which might not usually be broadcasted, as people might just do things without the emotions behind putting in the effort being explored. Personally, if I'm not motivated to write a review, I'll put it off, which does mean it gets pushed back and back, but also if I force myself to do it, it might be of a lower quality, or I won't enjoy it, and then me writing would be pointless if there's no fun in it. In the episode, the members are quite separated, but Nagi motivates them to come together, which is a nice moment, and also shows more of Nagi's character. Hopefully, in the future we will see the band becoming more of a band, and this was a necessary step towards achieving that. 

