This episode is centred heavily (actually completely) around Nazuna and Aliciana, and as the episode title suggests, it is to do with the song title. 

Originally, I didn't really have much to add to this introduction, so I was going to head straight onto my review. However, as I went to youtube to have another look at the thumbnail, it wasn't there. Only the first episode, episode 5 (the most recent to air at this time), and the premiere placeholder for the next episode where there. On the playlist dedicated to the anime on the official channel, only those 3 episodes are there too, with youtube declaring that "3 unavailable videos are hidden". I even checked with different VPN locations, to no avail. Grrrr, why no episodes. I'm not sure why they aren't there though, whether it is the company behind Irodorimidori's decision, or the channel's bidding, or youtube being dumb as usual. Regardless, at least we have the good-old-reliable redacted way to watch it. Now, not only is that the only subbed way, but the only way to watch it I can find. 



Because of the above revelations, I will be unable to say my opinion of the thumbnail. From what I remember, it featured Nazuna and Aliciana in their pyjamas, which is their costume for the runtime of this episode. Actually, now that I think about it, this section is kind of redundant. Sometimes I might have something to say about my first thoughts, but the image in the thumbnail is just a frame of the episode, so I guess it isn't really a big deal skipping this part.



The episode starts with the title card, which is a first for the series so far. Nazuna is practicing her guitar, until Aliciana walks in after her bath. It becomes apparent that they are having a sleepover, with the main business being the band's first song. These 2 are the most mature of the group, so in a way it is a bit like a leader meeting. Also it is a coincidence (or is it?) that the both of them are the 2 guitarists (excluding Naru on bass guitar) of the group. Also in this scene we see Nazuna's guitar, which is shaped like a rabbit, which fits her character. They discuss how Nazuna managed to write such great lyrics after the randomness she was given (this references episode 2). Nazuna then says she wanted to preserve Aliciana's great melody, so there are compliments all around. Also something of note is that Nazuna refers to Aliciana as Ogata-san.

However, there is one aspect Nazuana is hesitant about, which is the title, "Change Our MIRAI!" (mirai meaning future in Japanese). From my knowledge I already knew this would be the final name, and Nazuna states that it isn't really the name she is tentative of. Her main worry is the subsequent events, which is that if the song will actually change their lives. I'm not entirely sure her perspective of this, as in whether she is scared of change or scared it won't change anything. Either way, Arin sits next to her friend to comfort her, and recite her life story.



Flashback to Aliciana as a child. It is explained that she did lots of activities, but a lot of it she didn't truly enjoy. Her dad played the guitar, which she aspired towards. On day, she risked chastisement to have a go at playing. To her surprise, her dad was very pleased, and let Arin have a go. This links to the topic because that moment changed her life, as she went on to become a guitarist. Then in turn, that made the band exist. Every decision changes the future, and whilst some might be ultimately meaningless, some make a big difference, and change lives whether you like it or not. That fact is inevitable. This inspires Nazuna to stick with that title, as she learns that as it has a possibility of being future-changing, it deserves the title. That would also be Nazuna's main take-away, which is that her song is worthy of that name, which a a nice message of confidence, and Nazuna's self-esteem seems risen.

Lastly, the episode ends by bolstering the duo's relationship. This is because Nazuna called her friend Arin, instead of the more formal name she used to say. Relating to their discussion, Arin says that the future has already been changed, as Nazuna now refers to her in a closer way. Nazuna apologises, but then Aliciana comforts her, and Nazuna thanks Arin. "Although, there is another way we could change the future" insinuates Aliciana, as she gently brushes her hand along Nazuna's candy floss pink hair. Nazuna blushes, lost for words at this discovery. But as she watches Arin's face approaching her own through her white circular glasses, and feels the tender touch of Arin's hand on her leg, she closes her eyes, as they make contact, and- whoops, I wrote the wrong thing. If you were wondering how the story ended, then they fucked the end.



I am ashamed of myself. How could this have happened. I do not deserve this platform I have. What horrible deed have I committed. Well, I do not know the credits song. I know you are all disappointed in me, but I hope you can find it in your hearts to forgive me. Oh I found it, it is Nazuna's first song. I guess my misdeed makes sense, as I'm not really a fan of this song. Also it is called Fortissimo Bell (found from the wiki). And if you were wondering, what helped me find the song so fast was my organised channel "Irodorimidori fan" (linked in story description). I knew it was an early song, so I went on the chronological irodorimidori playlist, and then guessed Nazuna as she starred in this episode. So remember, visit my channel, and use code "irodorimidori" for 100% off your subscription. Sponsored by me.



So in conclusion, it was another good episode. It is quite similar is ways to the last episode, as they have both been calmer episodes, each with quite a profound message. The last episode was about motivation (which is mirrored a bit here, as Arin motivated Nazuna), and this had heavy themes of self-confidence, as Nazuna is doubtful of the song making a difference. However, she learns it will make a difference, even if it is small, so her work is worthy of the song name Change Our Mirai (also I watched Soul yesterday, this links quite a bit to that). For me personally Irodorimidori has changed me, as I enjoy the music, but also in a more active way for me it sparked my writing. I don't know if I will carry it on forever, but even if I don't, I can look back fondly. Might not make a large-scale difference, but it still makes a difference to me. 

Also both these episodes talked a lot about the future. Nagi was worried about the future, so made an effort to try to motivate the band (by making that website). In this episode, Nazuna is worried if the song will change the future, and Aliciana reassures her is will make a difference, at the very least to the band.

Some great messages today. That aside, we got more Aliciana and Nazuna dynamic, and the content of this episode has made AlicianaxNazuna even more plausible, as they have proven to be great together. I now consider the ship to be completely canon, no exceptions. Alizuna forever!

