In the last piece I wrote about this anime (episode 2 pt 2), I was a bit apprehensive about future subs. However, in a complete surprise, a flash flood of new episodes have appeared. It is even up to date with the latest episode (7). And with the episode 8 releasing tomorrow, which I'm pretty sure will be the big performance, I need to catch up  fast. Not too fast though, as I have other stuff going on, like my revision reviews for example. No but seriously I am a busy guy. 

This episode is centred around the whole band, with them filling in a sheet of paper. This may seem dull, but we get some more background and fun times, so it's all good. From the title "Getting an ominous paper", you start to suspect something. Although I'm not even sure if that is correctly translated, as wikipedia says it is called "Get an unknown paper", but that is just google translated, so I don't know the truth. Regardless, that is the concept of the episode.





We open to a cafe, with Serina stressing about something. What could be so terrifying. As we soon learn, it was a bit of an overexaggerated reaction, as it is just an application form for the festival. Title card! On this form, they basically just have to fill in the info. Serina starts off the form, but after some entertaining dialogue where she decides to write down they need 100 microphones, which was the amount the school was estimated to have, Aliciana takes charge (as she is usually forced to do). It seems that with Arin at the helm, they get through it in a flash. Or maybe that is just a time skip. Also Serina is cleaning the tables, so I guess she works there.

At the last section, Aliciana asks the group if there is any extra things they need to bring which they possess themselves. Serina replies by saying she will bring Snechama. Nagi inquires, and Serina claims it is her childhood friend. We then go into a backstory for Serina. 



She explains that as a child she kept accidentally breaking all her presents. We are shown some examples, like a set of swings. What she must of done to break those I don't know, as they are quite beaten up, but at least that seems reasonable and realistic, as it is made of poles. We then see a plastic car, which has a crack right down the middle, which is very perplexing. She must have just sat on it and it broke, which looking at the angle would make the most sense, but at the same time doesn't make sense, as she is only small. The last thing she broke is a games console, which also has a crack down the middle. Again, I have no idea how she broke it so cleanly in half, but it is funny. The only thing that stops you laughing at this scene is that we are shown tiny Serina crying at her misfortune, which is quite sad and heart-breaking to see. Even though she broke all those things, she didn't intend to, and judging by the damage I feel like they must've not been very high quality in the first place. 

Her parents must've realised that the cheap stuff ended up costing them more, as they buy her a drum. This makes Serina very happy, which is quite cute. However, unlike all her other toys, she played this one as much as she liked, and it never broke. I bet her parents were well happy she loved this drum so much. But she does love her drum, which brings us back to the present day.

Aliciana takes the moral of the story to be that Serina's best friend is one which never breaks after you hit them, which Nazuna disagrees is the only message, but judging by their expressions they feel the same way. Naru is proud of her cousin, and obviously looks up to her a lot. Nagi just looks expressionless and jaded.



And after that section, they are done. It is also shown they have written down Nagi's keyboard, but I guess she has less attachment to that than Serina to her drum. But yeah, they have finished. Right? Wrong! Nazuna points out they have missed a box. They all peer in to see. The band name. After everything, they haven't even thought of the name of the band. Of course we know what it will be, but shhhh.

Nagi assumes the name was Serina Akesaka Group, but thankfully Serina disagrees (it isn't a very imaginative name). Serina suggests that the band shouldn't just be about her, and should involve everyone. This could be a HaNaMiNa reference, but I might be looking into it too much. It is a bit of a premonition though. Hopefully we get to see the other bands in anime form. Anyway, after Serina's selfless thought, they ask Aliciana on her thoughts, as she seems to be an executive member. However, she is in her own world, thinking of names, like Arin's Five. I did laugh at this bit, as from my view she is the least likely member to be selfish, but she does have her funny moments where she gets carried away.



As they haven't had any proper ideas yet, they decide to have something to inspire them. Food! Yay, who doesn't love food. Yummy. They all have curries, to get their creative juices flowing. With this we get the origin story of the name. I'm sure we all put the name into google translate and it came up with colour green or something. But now we get the true story, and google was kind of right, and did the best it could considering the name is a mixture of words. In actuality, Serina is describing her curry. To be honest there isn't anything better I could've hoped for than it was named after food. I would love to try that curry. Although that is actual authentic cuisine, so my tongue would probably die. Anyway, she describes the curry as midori (green), and it being simmered with multicoloured (irotoridori). And there we have the origin. Thank you to the sub-person for the very useful and informative subtitles. The world needs subs, and we need to to thank them for their work. In fact, I think I could be a sub. Whoops wrong sub. Anyway, Serina has a eureka moment, just like Horrid Henry, and hastily scribbles down her idea. She does it straight onto the sheet so she is obviously very confident with her idea. She then shares her idea, and it becomes history: Irodorimidori. 





The end-credits song is Heartbeat, a song by Serina. This fits as this episode had quite a big focus on Serina. Also this is the conclusion now. Last episode we got Arin's introduction to music, and now we have Serina's. Their origins are also quite similar, as they are both given an instrument as children by their dads. It is quite interesting to see this, and is also a fun moment. This is however the last time we see the past of a character. This would usually be a bit frustrating, as I would want to see everyone's story. Despite this, I think I'm ok with it. The backstories fitted in well with the episodes, and the themes and character progression, so it isn't really necessary to do it for everyone. We also have had in depth moments without flashbacks, like episode 3 with Nagi. The only people who's deeper problems and worries haven't been explored are Nazuna and Naru. With the end of the season coming up (I think?), it is disappointing we don't get those moments, but of all the characters they seem the most consistent, and keep the same character. At least Nazuna got the focus in an episode (2), Naru has been sidelined the most. Maybe I just want Nekomatsuri in the credits, but it would actually be good to see more sides of all the characters we know from the songs, as that is one of the things I like the most about this series. Not that we've got so far hasn't been good though, as it's been great. Better than great. Better than better. 

