Hello, I am back after like a month or something. Don't worry though; I have retained all my Irodorimidori knowledge, so I can jump right into the review. Before we start, lets set the mood for the episode. It is a sleepover, so dim the lights, get into your bedwear, and letsa go!





The start of this episode was quite unusual. From just the first few seconds, it could easily be mistaken for a completely different genre of anime, one more nsfw. That would be quite a significant change from the series so far, which has only bordered on ecchi, rather than more hardcore content. Although depending on the characters involved, I wouldn't personally mind if they made that change. Nazuna, with Serina's help, seems to be trying to coerce Nagi into doing something , which with the tone and framing, could only be something sexual. But get that thought out of your head, you dirty-minded individual. They were on about a sleepover! Though you wouldn't be the only one to think that way, as when Aliciana walks in she seems to jump to that conclusion, so in this bit Arin is like a reflection of the audience, showing their reaction. Naru is also there (who before the situation was cleared up would've seemed like a voyeur), and she jokingly probes Arin of what she was thinking, which also doubles as a joke targeted at the audience, for being misdirected. But then after Serina gives Arin authority to cum, Aliciana gets sensible, and suggests that it would be a good opportunity for them to sort out some band things.



We time skip to the evening, and it's Pygama party time! Yay! Unfortunately I sleep nearly naked, so I don't have the joy of pygama parties 😢. I can't even have a nudist party, as I wear my undergarments to the dream dimension 😭. Pants party!? 🤔. Anyway, everyone (Serina and Nagi) is pumped, and hyper. They even jump backwards onto Nazuna's bed (Nazuna is hosting the sleepover). This is something I personally believe she should not tolerate, as she should make sure her buds respect her room, and treat it properly. I wouldn't (if someone fucking messed up my Lego collection I would fucking boom boom explode (I looked it up, unfortunately there isn't a more extreme synonym for explode I could find, linguists should get on that)).



But someone's missing...It's Nagi! And she's wearing a maid outfit? It appears this is at Nazuna's request, as she stares lovingly at her young companion. Some might say Nazuna is being a bit noncey, but we'll give her the benefit of the doubt and say she finds Nagi adorable like a younger sister or daughter. Naru's reaction seems to assume the worst, and even Nagi is taken aback with this sudden act of affection. Then, Nazuna reveals the 'real' reason for maid outfit (although something tells me it is a bit of an excuse), which is that they are trying on clothes, to see what they'll wear for the performance. Serina becomes a magician (I think), and Naru a cheerleader, and then Nazuna appears as a chef. Aliciana is resistant to this, begins to get afraid when the rest of the girls start to edge towards her with a selected outfit (a colourful dress). Arin protests, and asserts that they should be discussing things about their upcoming performance. 

However, she ends up not following her own advice, and falls asleep first. But to be fair, falling asleep is a function you can't very easily control, so if she dozed off I don't completely blame her. Moreover, we don't know how much they did coordinate, as they could've got a decent amount done. Serina and Naru don't have any sympathy though. She dreams about something music related, which from previous findings could be assumed to be her fantasy of being a music star.

Arin isn't the only one to fall into a slumber though, as Nazuna has also fallen asleep- on Nagi's lap. I know I kind of insinuated some things a bit earlier today, but going by their relationship being of guidance and care, it is a sweet moment.



Despite this being an entertaining moment, the 3 remaining bandmates acknowledge how the evening hasn't gone exactly to plan. Serina shrugs it off, saying they might get extra points for the costume, which is when Naru reveals that they have already organised what clothes they will be wearing. It seems the clothes trying on was exclusively for fun. That isn't too bad though, as they did seem to enjoy it, and trying on new things can be fun, except in clothes shops. Somehow those places manage to suck all the fun out of everything. 

As the 2 cousins were talking, Naru had a short ponder, and vocalises her thoughts, which could potentially be very consequential: Would they even get any credit for doing the show? This shatters Serina's world. This (probably) leads Nagi to backtrack a bit, saying they might get points, but that getting the points doesn't guarantee the live show to be a success. Serina replies to this by saying they shouldn't mess it up, but then she formulates another answer, which carries on from her overall story arch. She says that as long as she gets to drum with the band, she doesn't mind if she gets credit or not. Even Nagi is surprised at this claim, but it is a natural progression, which I think I predicted before. Originally, the band was only created for Serina to get extra credit, but over time she has found that the most important aspect of the band to her is playing with her friends. We started to see this sentiment in episode 5, which featured her backstory of her favourite drum, but here she has explicitly stated it. 

So Serina says she just wants to treasure the time she's spent with everyone. However, Serina isn't the only one who gets character progress, as this message resonates with Nagi. Nagi seems to take this to heart, and will treasure this time too. Previously, Nagi got quite worried about the progress the band was making (specifically in Episode 3), but now she knows she has her friends by her side (and one friend in her lap), so it's all good. Also, I was going through my reviews as it summarised the plot points, and in episode 1 I theorised that Nagi was just in it for the music to start, but she learnt that the true gift was friendship, which was exactly what happened. If anyone was doubtful Nagi's perspective has changed, she even smiles to Serina and Naru (we don't see her face), which seems to be a rare occurrence. Then they go to sleep.





The ed song is DETARAME ROCK&ROLL THEORY, which is a song by Naru. It isn't my favourite song, but it is still very interesting. I'm just sad we didn't get a certain other Naru song though. Nekomatsuri 4 life! This episode also marks the place where every ed has been a solo member song (with the first episode's being a full band song). It is kind of sad how we got Naru's song at the end, but no Naru development though, as that has been a bit of a pattern so far. I've mentioned this before, but Naru hasn't had much character development (Nazuna hasn't really either). This was a bit disappointing, but I guess they didn't have enough time to flesh out every character. At least the arcs we were given were good, and I am quite happy with what we received. 





To conclude, this episode was an enjoyable one. The concept of dressing up was fun, and the more serious side was also well done. Aliciana in this episode in some parts was kind of a voice of the audience, reacting to the events like we might. At other times she was played as joke, which was entertaining as well. Nazuna did have a few integral parts, but the things she did mostly lead to other things which were the focus, so she wasn't really the focus of the episode. Naru as usual didn't do much. The most significant part in terms of character progression this episode did was with Serina and Nagi, as they both learnt (in slightly different ways) that the thing they value the most with the band is that they enjoy playing with the others. This is nice, as they have become much closer the series, and now they are closer than ever. Just in time for the performance too, which is coming up soon!!!

