Hello, and welcome to part 2 of 3 of me reviewing the Irodorimidori music. And yes, this has now become a trilogy, with tomorrow being SSL's day. Today's review will be about the rival band to Irodorimidori, called HaNaMiNa. The name comes from the first 2 initials of each of the bandmates, which won't be clear below as they will be in a different order, but you can work it out. My review will follow the same template as the last one, with me going through each of the bandmembers and their solo songs, and then moving onto the full band. Due to there only being 11 songs in total, I will include them all.


First up is Nadeshiko, who is the founder and plays the guitar. She only has one solo song, which was also the first song to be released by a HaNaMiNa. He song is called Okay? Alright!, and is a good start to the band's discography. It is quite a happy upbeat song, showing her great singing ability, which all of the band members hold. The visuals are very bright, reflecting the song vibe, and the video also includes (during a guitar solo) a bird completing some kind of flying course where you have to fly through hoops, which looks like it's a race out of a Lego game, those dreaded races. The flying mechanics weren't even that good on them, one moment you'd be in a straight line, and then you'd be upside down or something. Regardless of that, the name sounds like the song is reassuring the listener, be again, we probably won't ever know, due there not being a translation. The song ends with a Thank You, which is well appreciated, and thank you Nadeshiko too, as you have a good song.

Next is Nanase, who also only has one solo song, and is on bass guitar. Her song, Sayonara Freeway, is quite good. It sounds more solemn, which on translation makes sense as I think it might be an analogy for death. Although, I guess we wouldn't know if all the other songs were about dying, perhaps Bang Babang Bang is referencing shots of a gun, rather than thrusts of a cumgun (but that's just a theory, an anime girl theory). The song name choice does seem a bit weird, but overall it is an enjoyable song.

Now it's time for Hana, who is another guitarist. I think she might be my favourite, as her songs are pretty great. Her first song is Tanitsu Shikousei Overbloom, which is quite good, as it has a good tune and singing and everything. The visuals are pretty cool, as they include lots of neon and cool shard imagery. However, it is in my belief that her second song, Nanka noise ni kikoeru, is even better. From the guitar bit at the start, reminiscent of of the guitar Bye Bye Yesterday from Ass Class (unconfirmed whether anime exists in this universe), to the singing tune, and the build up of the song in the middle for the end, it is a brilliant song.

Finally, Endingly and Last-but-not-leastly, is Minae, the drummer, who like Hana also has 2 songs, the first of which is Minae o check!. Whilst it may seem narcissistic to sing a song about yourself, it is a fun song, and is very entertaining. She does have a very good voice, which in this song sounds like she is recounting a story, which looking at the lyrics is true, as she basically her saying "I'm not very good at things, but I will beat everyone else", which doesn't leave a very good impression on her character. However, she does seem to be quite jokey with it, so her apparent arrogance can be excused. She also said senpai, and it's always exciting to hear one of the words you actually know. I thought I heard oppai as well, but she said ippai. Her second song, Shoutai Hanmei Nameless Girl, follows the trend from Hana where their second song is even better than the first. This also makes me want to hear more from the other 2 members, to see what their best is like. This song is very catchy, and does sound very good. If listening to Everything For A Reason by Irodorimidori didn't help you to learn it, by the end of this song you will definitely know letters A->C (hint: B is in the middle of A and C). Moreover, you can also learn the numbers 1,2 and 3 from this song, which is very educational. The visuals are also in my opinion some of the best, as with all the abstract paint lines and stuff it just looks really cool. In the chorus she also spells out her own name, with here then saying she's the only one, but after translating the lyrics from the wiki, it shows that the lyrics are super duper deep. Even with Google's not perfect translation, it brings a tear to my eye. I actually can't believe it- it turns out it's another song stroking her own ego. Wow, so amazing. She even says thank you near the end, which I will not accept. Before I realised what her songs were about, I enjoyed them a lot, but now I can't even properly appreciate her beautiful voice. She just comes off as extremely unlikable.

It's now time for the full band's songs, of which there are 5. The first song is Agitation, which I am honestly not a fan of. The chorus is alright, but overall I feel it isn't their best work, which being their first is still respectable. Their second song is "STAR"T, which is quite good, and the singing, which is done only by Nadeshiko, is very good, but again, it isn't a favourite. It is quite good and a less upbeat song though. Thirdly is Road without Road, which is a good song, with quite impressive cinematography. The name however is quite interesting, as it doesn't make logical sense. Looking at the lyrics, it seems a bit vague, so I will take a guess and say it's talking about Schroedinger's cat. Alternatively, it could be talking about flying cars, or maybe even a road leading to the edge of a cliff. Their penultimate song is I Just Rock, which does song like quite a cliched name, ignoring how the grammar doesn't look completely right. However, it is quite enjoyable for that reason, as it doesn't seem like a too serious song, which is good to have sometimes. It is also quite catchy, especially the "woh oh oh oh, woh oh oh oh, woh oh oh oh, woh oh oh oh" bit at the start. The last song of theirs is Que Sera Sera Kisoukyoku, which is probably one of my favourites. It just sounds great, with the guitar rock-genre tune, and the singing taking in turns and together. The visuals are also good, and the thumbnail is just quite a good representation group photo of the band. The lyrics seem to be about perseverance, and not giving up when falling down, which is a good message. There also seems to be some lyrics about tomorrow being another day, and about going to bed and dreaming, which I will do now.


There we go, that was my review on HaNaMiNa's music. Tomorrow I will finish the saga with my review of S.S.L.. Goodnight.

-CactusLowod

