After listening to all 54 songs in the Irodorimidori YouTube Channel music playlist, I think I should do a little review. I think that overall it is a fun universe, with lots of entertainment. Today I will be focusing on the songs, however there is also a visual manga and audio story, which I will not be reviewing today. There may also be songs only available as bonus tracks on physical CDs, but I'm not sure.


First, I will focus on the Irodorimidori band. I think their songs together are very good, with all the instruments together, including the violins and guitars, and then singing together they sound great. However, the majority of songs in this universe are solos, featuring one of the band members. I will now list my thoughts on them all.

 
First up is Serina, the drummer and founder of the band. Her songs tend to be very lively and playful, which makes the listening experience very entertaining. An example of this is with "SPICY SWINGY STYLE", which if you couldn't tell from the title, is a very fun song indeed. From the upbeat trumpets, to the switches, to the lewd imaging, it makes an easy favourite of mine. It also makes a fun sing along to for English audiences, which is well appreciated.

Next is Nazuna, one of the guitarists, who I'm going to be honest with, I'm not a fan of. It's not that her songs are bad, it's just that she sounds annoying. For example in the song Tic Tac DREAMIN', it does have a good tune, but that tune is ruined by her incessant whiney voice in your ear. I do apologise to her, as I'm sure she's a nice person, but I dislike her songs, and I can only tolerate her in the full band songs, where her voice fuses with the others.

The other guitarist is Aliciana. Her songs are very good, and with her being a guitarist, the instrument is noticeable for playing a great accompanying tune is songs like Prism, which is poppier, and Bang Babang Bang, which is much more metal than other songs, making it quite unique. She also has a great voice, making her an invaluable member.

The bassist of Irodorimidori is Naru. TBH she might be my favourite character, as her songs are great, with her own rocky spin on it. A clear song highlighting her uniqueness is Nekomatsuri, which features the lyrics: "nyanyanyanya, nyanyanyanyanyanyanya, myamyamyamya, myamyamyamyamyamya" Anyone could see this was a great song, and unironically it is actually really good, cats aside. Another great song by her (see, she gets 2 song analyses, told you she was good) is -OutsideR:RequieM-, which I copy and pasted the name of. This is a great song, which seems to be in the rock genre maybe idk. The thumbnail for the video also displays a danger sign, which could be a serious warning, but there aren't translations for this song, so I guess we'll never know. I thought I should also mention Day by Day CRiSiS Songs, which is another amazing song. That song also stars Aliciana, so you know it'll be good with those two.

There is also a keyboard player, called Nagi. She seems to have less songs, and there might be less focus on her, but don't be fooled; TRUST is a demonstration of her talent, and it's quite a nice song. Another song by her is Irotoridori no melody, which is a great and upbeat song, showing her piano and vocal skills. This visuals with the rainbows and sky and stuff was also fun

The last 2 members are Shirona and Nachi, who both play string instruments. I group them together because of this, and because they are the only people in this universe who have a doujin, which is a yuri shared between them. Oh, and they're also sisters, which I guess is proof of the degeneracy of the internet, as it chose those 2 of literally all people. Anyway, their songs are quite good, which feature their violin (Nachi) or cello (Shirona). Shirona does have some quite good songs, which are ok. Black'n White JAMMIN' CATS, also starring Naru is quite fun. I think I prefer Nachi's song though. Moushin soloist life! is a song I enjoy quite a bit, and demonstrates her ability well, and how good she is. Sousha wa tada senaka to teikin de kataru nomi is a very interesting song, as it isn't very traditional, but I think it works reasonably well.

Now we've gone over the separate members, time for the full band overview. I think they do work very well together. With all the instruments and voices together, it is just wonderful. Change Our MIRAI! was there first song, which was quite good, but with the remake 3 years later (Our 7 Lights) they outshone themselves. The song Still is a great song, and is a great representation that the culmination of them all ends up great. The violin by Nachi also just makes it just so *chef's kiss*. Everything For A Reason is a great song, which is very catchy, and sounds great. It also helps you learn the first 3 letters of the alphabet.


Now we've finished Irodorimidori, but where would we be without reviewing the 2 other bands in this universe, HaNaMiNa and S.S.L.. However, it is 10 to 12 and as it unfortunately turns out I need sleep more than reviewing anime girl bands, so I will do a full review of them both tomorrow, without needing to rush them.


-CactusLowod

