Limits is a song by SSL, released on the Irodorimidori channel on Monday 1st November 2021, at 3am GMT. After the excitement of watching the anime reveal teaser, I nearly missed that there was a new song premiering. At first I was just going to listen to it when I got up, but then I thought I it could be fun to watch it live, which would also give me time to review it after. That then became my plan.



In preparation for the release, I listened to all of the SSL songs, to remind myself of their music. Of course, their discography consists of only 4 songs, so I listened to some other songs in the universe as well. When comparing the 3 bands, there is a clear difference between them, which is an aspect I like, as it isn't all the same, and they have slightly different genres. This is especially true for SSL, as they tend to be more electronic. This makes their music quite unique from the rest, and although I don't really have a preference of which band or genre I prefer, I do like how they are all unique.

I had an early night, as my plan was to sleep before, and then after experiencing the song and writing the review, I would get back to sleep. After trying to get to sleep for some hours, I got up. I did have my Physics HW to do anyway, and there was also a certain live stream special which I wanted to watch, which started at midnight. I watched most of that, and then it was time for me hear some Japanese music.



With 2 minutes to go, I can't wait.

Wow, that was a pretty epic song. From the first few seconds, it was destined for greatness. Even after the first listen I love it. Just everything about had something being excited for. I will now give it a rewatch/listen, to give a more in-depth review.



The song starts with a muffled radio kind of talk, before indulging in a hearty base drop, demonstrating the style of SSL music, with it being more electronic. It does have a great, catchy, pounding tune, which switches between 2 sides in kind of call and response (describing music is hard). On the 1st repetition of that phrase there is also a nice underlying high-pitched constant violin-like bit, which sounds nice. Also, I don't know if it's just because it was just Halloween, but it also has a bit of a spooky theme to it. The visuals we are introduced to are also what we expect from SSL, with lots of lights and geometric shapes, which looks cool as always. This intro bit hooks you in, and also reintroduces you to them.

We start with Hinako singing her bit. With her part,it has correlating phrases, with the first part being quicker, and the second being dragged out, making for a unique and fun to listen to rhythm. For the first 3 phrases, the first half is also in English, which helps to give a bit of insight into the message of the song, and also from an English-speaking point of view makes it more accessible. As a side not, one character aspect I didn't previously notice was how "XXX" is printed across Hinako's chest, which is certainly an interesting choice someone made. Anyway, this is unfortunately her only solo part in the song, which is a bit of a shame as, as proven in Jack the Game, she is a great vocalist, but as the song can't be infinitely long, and it's a joint song, it isn't something to really be a flaw of the song.

Serenade then has time to shine, in what I guess could be a pre-chorus. This is a bit of a switch, with the texture being thinner, and it being a quieter, calmer bit, leading up to the chorus. Her voice of course is nice, and her softer singing this part fits in well with the more tranquil bit, as the build up, where the music crescendos. This was also seen in her song MELtin' 17, so maybe that's her signature thing. Serenade's serene part does add a lot to the song, providing a sort of diving board for the next bit.

After a little music transition, Kanade sings most of the chorus. Her voice fits this part well, as it is more powerful, and provides a good melody to go on top of the backing music, which is very heavy. In her song Over Heart, a similar technique was used. We then get the trio singing the end of the chorus, which doesn't seem like a part of the message of the song, but just a bit for the audience to respond to, with the lyrics being "Sing along-ong-ong-ong-ong, Bring it on-on-on-on-on". That's not to day it's a bad part though, as it is catchy and fun. We then get a couple of lines before the altogether singing, and then Kanade sings something which sounds a bit like she's saying 'Santa Claus'.

After the chorus, we get a little musical interval. This bit is cool, with what sounds a bit like bongos, and lots of electric bits. The visuals also go even crazier, with lasers and stuff. After this, we get a repetition of the pre-chorus and then chorus, and then the cool tune bit from the start, and then it's the end.



But what is the moral, I hear everyone saying. Of course that was the first thing everyone thought. The song name is Limits, but I don't think that the word is actually spoken in the song. I am also very early, as there isn't even an entry for this song on the Irodorimidori wiki. This means there isn't a way for me to easily translate the lyrics. However, from the English lyrics, and the song name, you can  kind of get the gist. Hinako's English lyrics talk about the finity of life ("You only get one life"), and how it's fleeting ("In the blink of an eye", "Enjoy your youth"), which I guess is telling you to make the most of it. Seranade doesn't reveal much, only just saying "No matter what happens", which could be predicted to be a message of perseverance. Kanade sings "This place is for you, for us", which doesn't seem to mean much, maybe it is talking about the world being yours for the taking or something. With this analysis, the last 2 phrases, "Sing along", "Bring it on", could then probably be seen as enjoying your life, and taking on challenges, which test your limits.



Another great song from SSL. I think it is a very enjoyable song, and a great full band return song, as the last 3 were solos. It also is very different to We are us, their first song, which is good, as they are both distinct. Hinako also sang the majority of that song, with the others accompanying, so it's good that they all have more equal vocals in this song. With this sing, it also feels like it combines the strengths of the individual musicians, which can be seen separately in the solo songs, but this song brings them together very well. Logically, I guess this would make this the best song of SSL, as it has improved from the other songs. Whilst your favourite song is subjective, the improvements are undeniable, making this a great song regardless of whether it is liked or not. Nevertheless, I personally enjoy it anyway.

I now desperately need to sleep, as it's getting so late that it's getting early.



