Well guys, it's here. The Grande Finale to the Irodorimidori Music Review Trilogy. All fun must come to an end at some point, however the legacy of this great discovery will live on in out heart. This will follow the same layout etc let's get on with it.
The band we will be discussing today is S.S.L., which stands for Synthesizer Laboratory. As the name suggests, this band does sound more electronic and futuristic, which adds some variety between the 3 bands. It is also relatively new, with there being only 4 songs in total. However, don't you worry, as I will fill this review with as much sustenance as I can, to fulfil your greedy little brains, which thirst for knowledge.


The first bandmember is Hinako, who is the 'MC'. Whilst she may look cutesy from the outside, do not be fooled, as her raps could rival Eminem (she is still cute tho). Her song is called Jack the GAME, which on first impression does seem like a cool name, and the song does not disappoint. She does both rapping and singing, which in both cases do sound good. It also creates an interesting contrast, as the rapping sounds quite forceful, whereas the singing is quite sing-songy, rather than rap-rippy. The tune is also very good, containing some cool switches, and a big epic bass drop. This song, which is the second SSL song chronologically but in this review has been described first, is a good demonstration of how the the bands sound different, for example Irodorimidori is quite poppy, HaNaMiNa is rock and SSL is more electro, which can be cleary heard as you listen to it (wait, you have been listening to the songs as you follow along with the review, haven't you?). The visuals of course are great, representing the song well, as it looks like some kind of rave. Overall, this was a great song, and a true gamer bop. Also, as a side note I also found it funny how this mostly hardcore song ends with the lyrics "Game Over desu". Whilst on the topic of lyrics, on inspection, the lyrics do seem quite competitive, which you could compare to Minae from HaNAMiNA. However it is my belief that Minae's lyrics just seem so unlikable and Passive-aggressive, whereas Hinako's are more just like the general competitiveness of the rap game, of which Hinako is undoubtable a part of. I hear she has thrashed many aspiring rappers in Underground diss track battles, which could also show a hidden, ruthless side to Hinako.

The next person is Serenade, who is the DJ of the band. Her solo song is called MELtin' 17. This, like the other SSL songs, has a some switches in the song, with more upbeat parts with electric boops, and other parts fitting in more with her name, as there are some nice singing parts, with her excellent voice. The visuals again are also good, and being a similar style to Jack the Game, just with a different colour scheme and content theme. One mystery would be the name, which is vague. What is she melting which is 17? 17 things? 17 yr olds. I guess I should be glad I'm still 16, but when I'm 17 I'll let you know if Serenade melts me. The first line is also "Meltin' Wonderland", which could either be a Utopia or Dystopia, depending how you took it.

The last member is Kanade, who is on synth. Her name is quite intriguing, as it sounds like it could either be a fizzy drink or that someone misspelt Canada. Her song is called Over Heart. Meiner Meinung nach ist es my least favourite song, but it is still quite good. One aspect I appreciate was the lyric "Overflow", which was nestled in the song, and also appeared in big writing in the video. It was unexpected, but I did appreciate the reference. I guess Kanade is a fan of the wholesome anime, which is obviously completely understandable. Alternatively, it could be a call to action about how Season 2 should be made.

Lastly is the full band's song, which is called We Are Us. The name on this one is quite a philosophical message, as if we aren't us, then who are we? This song was the first of theirs, and is a pretty great song. It is basically a culmination of all the bandmembers talents, which would make sense as that is literally what it is. The lyrics are also very interesting, as ever other line is in English, which I guess allows you to sing about half of it, and the other half you can just spout random noises which sound Japanese. I think that it is quite a good song, as it sounds good.


Overall, the universe of Irodorimidori is very interesting, as it combines music with a tie in story, with different bands and characters. Especially considering it came from a rhythm game, this concept seems to work very well. This also still does confuddle me though, as one would expect a brand of this magnitude and quality to have quite a large following, but it doesn't. Vtubers are an example of fictional girls who people can simp over, and that is a massive market. You could also make links between this and MLP: Equestria Girls, as they both have animated girl bands competing against each other. I'm pretty sure that the Equestria Girls films were profitable, and those films weren't even that good; the series (MLP: FiM) is miles better, with better songs as well. Back to Irodorimidori, the songs as a whole are actually really good, and it deserves more recognition. Also, with more fame, comes more r34. Because of this, I hereby dedicate my life to Irodorimidori. I've already learnt from experience how to spell Irodorimidori, and I've already listened to all the songs, and this whole week I've spent most of my spare time on this, so I feel it is a worthy sacrifice. And if (when) it gets really big in the future, I can brag about how I was there years ago, before they were as successful. Irodorimidori, HaNaMiNa and SSL forever!!!


Thank you for your time. This review series has been fun to make, but also very time consuming. I think I will give my writing career a little hiatus, and go back to doing whatever I did with my time before.
-Dylan

