The fifth pear is upon us. I did eat it a day ago, with me eating pear 6 earlier today, but I think I can still remember the experience. Without reviewing it, there would be a missing part in the saga, it would be like masturbating without cumming. Therefore, as you read this review, I will cure your blueballs, and I hope you enjoy your journey UwU.



Here is where I would explain the circumstances to me receiving my gift, however it seems I have forgotten. I would've gotten it on Monday from Sam, but except from that, whoopsie I forgor



The time I decided to eat it was at Lunchtime on Tuesday 12th Oct 2021. I had just gone to Greggs to have my lunch, which was very nice. I had a cheese pasty and a chocolate doughnut. Thankfully, when paying the nice Greggs lady gave me £1 back, as I had overpaid. This was an appreciated gesture, but it probably isn't a very proud moment of mine, due to me doing a Maths A-level. The pasty was nice as always, as it's something I get frequently from Greggs, on the occasion I go. On the other hand, this was the first time I had that doughnut. It was very chocolately and nice. Surprisingly, when I bit into it, I received a shock oral creampie. This wasn't an especially unpleasant experience, but I usually prefer to be informed before having my mouth filled with cream. I guess you could say it do-nutted.  Now I mention it, the pasty was also creamy, so I guess overall it was a very creamy meal.

Usually I end a meal with the nicest food, which from my lunch, one would expect the chocolate doughnut to be the most delectable. However, I knew in my heart that Sam's pear would be an exceptional feast. In hindsight, of course the doughnut was the tastiest, but the pear was quite great. I was standing at the statue, when I was presented with another pear. This reminded me that I had the previous day's one in my bag, ready to eat. I then swapped the pears, so the new one was in my bag, and I would be eating the Monday one. This would also be the first time eating Sam's pear right in front of him (since writing the reviews). Due to this, we then discussed some pear-related matters. First was about stalk-removal, at which I described my method from the last one. Then was about eating the whole pear, which I also do. Lastly, Sam enquired "How do you eat it?", at which point I promptly deepthroated the pear, biting most of the end off. "That's also how I do it", he replied.

 As for the taste and texture, it was as nice as the last one. It was super juicy, and the texture was nice to match. One curious thing was how this one contained seeds, which hasn't been seen in a pear since I ate the first one. These pips were darker and smaller than for instance apple seeds, which the seeds from pear 1 were like. This was intriguing, but I think the mystery was solved in my review for Pear 2, so I guess some pears have seeds, some don't.

By the time we returned to *place of learning*, I had swiftly gobbled it up. This pear was very nice, and marks a trend in the pears being extraordinarily good. I hope this trend continues (it does for the next one)

