Hello again. I know that there wasn't a planned review for today, but the last 3 nights I have spent writing, so without doing something now I feel lost. After sustaining myself with evening consumables, I hungered for a sweet-tasting food, to end my feast. I pondered for some time, before I realised what sat on the table, waiting for me to vore it: Sam P's Pear. Not only would it nourish my tastebuds, it would also suckle my craving of review writing.

Before it would enter my body, I needed to prepare it first. I removed the stalk, meaning I can't give a proper review of it, but it did come out the top quite cleanly, so I'll give it that. In fact, I would go as far as to say I would applaud it, as it posed enough of a challenge to remove to feel accomplished, but it wasn't so hard that either some stalk was still stuck in there, or I ended up with a mushy mess on my hands. 

Looking at the exterior of the fruit, it had precisely 3 bruises on it, which I blame on Sam's apparent negligence, but overall it looked extremely edible. I started at the top, biting the longer top bit first. This part was more like the usual texture of a pear, being strangely gravelly yet juicy simultaneously. Whilst this may not seem like a very pleasant experience, bizarrely it does, which secures pears as somewhat of a idol among fruits. However, the plump base was unfortunately the downfall. It was a bit stringy inside, which isn't an uncommon thing among (us) fruits, but is also not the most desirable thing. Nevertheless, it didn't detract to harshly from my overall experience. Regardless, it was free food anyway, so anything except it being poisoned would be a positive.

The most recent pear I have to compare this one would be the one I had maybe a Fortnite ago. That pear was also provided by the same dealer (Sam **** P****** [censored for privacy and anonymity]), and I would say was also a great pear, although I don't remember it in picture-perfect detail. One significant different was the presence of seeds in the other pear, which were absent in the one I enjoyed this evening. Whilst it is an unusual occurrence, it doesn't bother me. "I'll let it slide", as some might say. " 'sall cool wit' me bro' ".
After doing some research, pears are supposed to have seed in them naturally. From gardeningknowhow.com, "pears reproduce sexually and, just like humans" [not this human though, I write reviews about anime girls and pears =D ]


In conclusion, pear good. As for a lesson, you are probably never going to get the perfect pear, as it probably doesn't exist. Every pear is different, and every pear is enjoyable for that fact. You never know what a pear will be like until you take a succulent bite, and even then you don't know what each chomp will hold. It turns out this pear had a good moral, as well as being good nutriment.