Hello there. It is time to  review pear 6. I could also note that pear 5 was written right before me writing this. As I ate this one on the same day as me writing this, it will be fresher in my mind, so I can write about it more reliably.



I first became acquainted with this pear on Tuesday 12th October 2021, in events explained in more detail in the Pear 5 review. In short, I got the pear, and swapped it with the old pear, and it was in my bag until I had it the next day (today (Weds)). Funnily enough, that's what happened today as well, as I was given a pear, I put the new one in my bag and ate the old one. I think I'll end up eating that pear probably on Friday, but I guess we'll see.



 After walking down from *alternate inconvenient place of learning*, while I ate my wrap, I decided I wasn't finished with eating, and I would eat the pear resting in my bag, waiting to be awakened. After arriving at the Chemistry lesson, with some time to spare, I concluded that that would be a suitable place to consume my fruit. I removed the stalk, with the method learned with pear 4, and then pondered a little. It was something I had been wondering, but was especially relevant because a conversation about pear-consumption methods the day before. After my rumination, I resolved to switch things up from usual, and eat the pear upside down (starting from the bottom). I took my first bite.

It seemed I had bitten off more than I could chew. This was metaphorically, as physically, it was just a really big bite, which was a bit bigger than I was used to. It was manageable, as I was just able to chew it down and digest it. However, after that colossal chomp, I felt like I had opened a new hole in my chest. My oesophagus felt stretched, and my ribs wider. Despite this, I continued, and at the same rate as before. This meant that before long it was all finished, and my chest still felt extra large, with space made from giant pear chunks. In my opinion, I prefer to eat a pear from the top, which I can now compare to the less-than-great upside down way.

Taste test: like the past 2 pears, this one was deliciously juicy and amazing. There honestly isn't too much more to say about it, as it was just a superior pear. I just hope that the pear in my bag doesn't break the trend.



Overall, it was great pear, which I devoured unusually, but it was still delectable. It also marked the last bit of food I ate before the messy Chemistry practical, which involved spilt acid and broken science. I guess in a way that means Sam P's pear fuelled all the disasters that happened.

-Dylan

